                          DOCUMENTATION
              Estimates of the Population of States
             by Age, Sex, Race, and Hispanic Origin:
                          1981 to 1989


These data are estimates of the population of the 50 States and
the District of Columbia by 5-year age groups (age 0 to 4, 5 to
9, ....85 and over) sex (male, female), and modified race (White;
Black; American Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut; Asian and Pacific
Islander) and Hispanic Origin (Hispanic Origin, non-Hispanic
Origin) for each year, July 1, 1981 through July 1, 1989.  These
data are consistent with the following recently released
estimates: 1) revised estimates of the population of counties by
age, sex, and race; 2) intercensal estimates of the population of
states by age and sex; and 3) intercensal estimates of the
population of the United States by age, sex, and race.

The estimates included in this release are developed by
interpolating the proportions of the population in specified
race/ethnic categories developed from special census files for
April 1, 1980 and 1990.  The interpolated proportions are applied
to the appropriate annual state totals of revised estimates of
the population of counties by age, sex, and race.  As a final
step, the interpolated estimates are adjusted to be consistent
with national intercensal estimates by specified race and
ethnicity and the state intercensal estimates by age and sex.

The age and race data in the 1980 and 1990 Census data files
which were used as anchor points in this methodology were
modified to be consistent with other data sets.  The 1980 census
data were further modified to be consistent with the 1990
definition of counties and the race modification procedures
developed for 1990.  The race classifications were modified in
the 1980 and 1990 census files.  The 1980 and 1990 census data
included persons classified as "Other race".  These people were
not included in one of the specified racial categories listed on
the census form.  The existence of the "Other race" category is
inconsistent with race categories defined by the Office of
Management and Budget in OMB Directive 15.  In order to serve the
needs of the user community, it was necessary to assign each of
these persons to a specified race.

The age statistics for 1990 were modified to correspond with the
April 1, 1990 census date.  A review of the detailed 1990 census
information indicted that respondents tended to provide their age
as of the date of completion of the questionnaire, not their age
as of April 1, 1990.  In addition, there may have been a tendency
for respondents to round up their age if they were close to
having a birthday.  The age data were modified to correspond to
the April 1, 1990 date.

The proportions by specified race developed from the special
census files for 1980 and 1990 were interpolated to each July 1
date, 1981 through 1989.  The interpolated proportions in each
specified race/ethnic group were then applied to the appropriate
state totals derived from the revised set of estimates of the
population of counties by age, sex, and race; 1980 to 1989
(documentation enclosed).  As a last step in the process, the
interpolated estimates were adjusted to be consistent with
revised intercensal estimates of the population of the nation by
age, sex, and race; and the intercensal estimates of the
population of states by age and sex.

Separate data are shown on this computer diskette for each of the
race/ethnic groups (White Hispanic, White non-Hispanic, Black
Hispanic, Black non-Hispanic, American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut
Hispanic, American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut non-Hispanic, Asian,
Pacific Islander Hispanic, and Asian Pacific Islander non-
Hispanic).  However, the limitations of our methodology are such
that we do not consider these data to be accurate for each
individual cell.  We include the separate data for your convience
in aggregating to various groups.  Although the data shown on
this diskette are unrounded, we do not consister these data to be
accurate to the last digit.

Technical Contact:       Sam Davis
                         Population Division
                         (301) 457-2441


                OUTPUT DISKETTE DOCUMENTATION
              Estimates of the Population of States
             by Age, Sex, Race, and Hispanic Origin:
                          1981 to 1989

This diskette contains estimates of the population of the 50
States and the District of Columbia by 5-year age groups (ages 0
to 4, 5 to 9, ....85 and over), sex (male, female), modified race
(White; Black; American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut), and Hispanic
Origin (Hispanic Origin, non-Hispanic Origin) for each July 1
date, 1981 through 1989.

5 1/4" floppy diskette        or       3 1/2" floppy diskette
High Density
Record Length  131 Characters
Record Count   7,344
               (16 records per year per State,
                51 x 16 = 816
                9 years of data
                816 x 9 = 7,344 records)

Record Layout:
          Contents                      Columns

FIPS State Code                         1-2
Year (Last digit, 1,2,...9)             3
Race/Hispanic Origin Code               4
     1= White non-Hispanic
     2= Black non-Hispanic
     3= American Indian, Eskimo,
        Aleut, non-Hispanic
     4= Asian, Pacific Islander
        non-Hispanic
     5= White Hispanic
     6= Black Hispanic
     7= American Indian, Eskimo,
        Aleut, Hispanic
     8= Asian, Pacific Islander
        Hispanic
Sex                                     5
     1= male
     2= female
Age
     0-4                                6-12
     5-9                                13-19
     10-14                              20-26
     15-19                              27-33
     20-24                              34-40
     25-29                              41-47
     30-34                              48-54
     35-39                              55-61
     40-44                              62-68

Record Layout Continued:

     45-49                              69-75
     50-54                              76-82
     55-59                              83-89
     60-64                              90-96
     65-69                              97-103
     70-74                              104-110
     75-79                              111-117
     80-84                              118-124
     85+                                125-131

